Discuss "using namespace std;" (#479)
hsf-training/cpluspluscourse: talk/basicconcepts/scopesnamespaces.tex

    \end{cppcode*}
  \end{alertblock}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}[fragile]
  \frametitlecpp[98]{Using namespace std}
  \begin{block}{Purpose}
    \begin{itemize}

>       \item Directive to make all members of the \texttt{std} namespace visible
>       \item Can be used for convenience, but risk of name clashes
>       \item OK in implementation files or scopes
>       \item Alternative: using declaration (e.g.\ \cppinline{using std::cout;})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      \item Directive to make all members of the \texttt{std} namespace visible
      \item Can be used for convenience, but risks name clashes
      \item OK in implementation files or inside scopes
      \item Alternative: using declaration (e.g.\ \cppinline{using std::cout;})
```

>       \item Alternative: using declaration (e.g.\ \cppinline{using std::cout;})

Reviewer: Would you say such a using declaration is fine in a public header? I don't think so, but it is for sure less dangerous.

I am afraid that the slide could be interpreted as: Use using declarations instead in a header file!

Author: That's not what I meant, indeed. Needs rephrasing.

Author: Rephrasing done.

    \end{itemize}
  \end{block}
  \begin{exampleblock}{}
    \begin{cppcode*}{}
      using namespace std;
      cout << "We can print now\n"; // uses std::cout
    \end{cppcode*}
  \end{exampleblock}

>   \begin{alertblock}{Never use in a public header!}
>     \begin{cppcode*}{gobble=2,firstnumber=4}
>       #include "EvilHeader.h" // has using namespace std;
> 
>       struct array { ... };
>       array a;  // Error: name clash with std::array
>     \end{cppcode*}
>   \end{alertblock}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \begin{alertblock}{Never use in a header at global scope!}
    \begin{cppcode*}{gobble=2,firstnumber=4}
      #include "EvilHeader.h" // has using namespace std;

      struct array { ... };
      array a;  // Error: name clash with std::array
    \end{cppcode*}
  \end{alertblock}
```
